---
layout: post
title: My greatest challenges
---

I've been teaching and/or translating German for the majority of my adult working life, so when business started to slow down I became a bit apprehensive.  I began brainstorming career change options and living in the San Francisco Bay Area it became apparent that learning a skill in the high tech field would be a wise choice. The question remained as to what I should learn. While pursuing my graduate degree in translation, we also had to take a technology course on how to build our own website for our future translation business. I remembered that we had learned some HTML and CSS, so I began looking into web development and discovered coding bootcamps.
The greatest challenge for me has been the leap to thinking like a programmer. For the majority of my life, I have been a "liberal arts" person. I was always cherished reading great literary works and learning foreign languages. As a Germany literary scholar, I had become accustomed to reading every single word on a page and soaking it up. As I embarked upon my web developer journey, I quickly learned that I had to read material very differently and skim through material focusing on the important stuff. I could no longer afford to soak up every single word when reading through hundreds of pages of Ruby documentation.  Although I was adequate at math and science, I tended to shy away from these subjects, so programming seemed counter-intuitive for me.  
Although translation can be creative, there are limits since a translator must always remain true to the original meaning of the text. This especially holds true, for example with legal texts. You simply cannot afford to be creative and must remain accurate. This is also true to a certain extent with programming since you must conform to the proper syntactical conventions of your programming language, however, programming is unlike translation in that you, the programmer, are the creator of your app. As a translator, I am not the author and must convey the original author's meaning in my language.  As a programmer I am the creative genius behind the code. This is a huge leap for me since I now have to solve problems which often resemble mathematical word problems. I have to explain to the computer what I want it to do by breaking every single task down into much smaller components. This is a new way of thinking for me which I've only been engaged in for a relatively short time compared to my many years of German language expertise. 
To say the least, my coding experience has been humbling, however, I recognize that each day I continue to code contributes to more mastery. 