---
layout: post
title: My Bloc bootcamp experience
---

After conducting research on various coding bootcamps, I decided on Bloc's online full stack web developer bootcamp. The decision was primarily made due to costs and convenience. I work as a full time freelance translator, so it was very important to be able to work at my own pace. Many of the local San Francisco Bay Area bootcamps have day-long 40-hour per week formats and I simply could not afford to stop working full time. Bloc is not only one of the more flexible online bootcamps but it is also one of the more prestigious online bootcamps. I was fully convinced to join after interviewing a former Bloc bootcamp graduate who successfully found employment as a frontend developer. 
Prior to Bloc, I had taken an online web development course via Udacity. The Udacity course was interesting and focused more on frontend development , however, the format was asynchronous. By contrast, Bloc offered weekly mentor meetings which were very helpful  since I could directly speak with my mentor and address questions as well as engage in pair programming. 
I must say that learning to code has been one of the most difficult endeavors I've ever embarked upon. I liken it to my experience of having lived abroad in Japan. I had lived in Japan as a JET exchange teacher and like many JETS, I didn't know a word of Japanese before departing for Japan. My experience there was one of the most fascinating yet frustrating adventures since I was basically illiterate in Japanese. I remember looking all around me and seeing these beautiful Japanese kanji  (Chinese characters) and hiragana and katakana. I wanted to know what it all meant but it would take much time to slowly learn the language and put meaning to those foreign characters. This is what programming is like for me, especially in the beginning. There are so many concepts to learn in terms of the programming language and it's syntax as well as the logic behind your program.  Something as seemingly simple as outputting your data appeared to be much more complex. I had to learn patience and learn to break down each coding problem into smaller component s. Bloc taught me how to do this.
I imagine that most bootcamps are similar, however, I like that Bloc allowed me to spread out my learning process over a longer period of time while providing weekly support. We were given a wide variety of tasks to accomplish in our foundation project and subsequently given the opportunity to practice these basic concepts in additional projects as well as our capstones.
In short,  I believe I made a good choice by choosing Bloc as my starting point into a new career as a web developer.  I feel that Bloc has provided me with a solid foundation upon which I can further build. 